<h1> China shared data with WHO experts, report based on facts: Chinese expert </h1>
<hr>
<a href=" https://news.cgtn.com/news/2021-03-31/China-WHO-joint-study-report-is-based-on-facts-Chinese-expert--Z4WQshnMPe/index.html "> https://news.cgtn.com/news/2021-03-31/China-WHO-joint-study-report-is-based-on-facts-Chinese-expert--Z4WQshnMPe/index.html </a> 


<p>China did share data with WHO experts in the joint study on the source of COVID-19, and the report released on Tuesday is based on facts, said Liang Wannian, the Chinese leader of the China-WHO joint expert team, at a press conference in Beijing on Wednesday.</p> 

<p>Liang stressed that the workload of the joint study, saying "the team were busy analyzing massive amount of data and refining the report everyday before the release."</p> 

<p>"We are confident the report can stand the test of time," Liang added.</p> 

<p>During the press briefing, Liang confirmed that the report mentions bats, pangolins, minks and cats as potential animals that may have introduced the SARS-CoV-2 virus to humans. The earliest patient found in the research was diagnosed on December 8, 2019.</p> 

<p><a href="https://news.cgtn.com/news/2021-03-30/WHO-releases-report-on-COVID-19-origin-tracing-joint-study-with-China-YQ5EWfWQFy/index.html">Read more: Main content of the 120-page report explained</a></p> 

<p>About the "China not sharing raw data" accusations, Liang told reporters that the premise and the logic behind the claim are flawed.</p> 

<p>"In our research, all databases and files were shared between all Chinese and foreign experts. Everyone can see everything," Liang explained. "But taking pictures of some papers or bringing them away can be illegal in China."</p> 

<p>"Sometimes the data could relate to patients' privacy and require their consent to be shared. I think this is a globally-accepted concept," he added.</p> 

<p>He also questioned the accusations from the perspective of definition. "I want to know what did they mean by 'raw data'," he said.</p> 

<p>"There are many types of data," he went on explaining. "We used sorted data and sorting those records was hard work."</p> 

<p>Liang told the media that checking data record by record was neither practical nor necessary for the joint team.</p> 

<p>On the delay of the release date, Liang explained that the experts had to work on the report in both English and Chinese language and it took much efforts to make sure nothing was lost in translation, and "all members of the team believe that quality is more important than catching up with a date."</p> 

<p>Liang stressed that there's no interference or laziness behind the delayed release date. China supports the WHO conducting more researches on the same topic, Liang said.</p> 

<p>On next steps of the joint research, deputy head of China's Center of Disease Control and Prevention Feng Zijian said that more studies should be conducted in other countries to form a global cooperation.</p> 

<p>Origins tracing of the virus should not be confined to Wuhan or even China, said Gao Fu, director of the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention.  </p> 

<p>"In terms of traceability, I think we should be more open. We can't restrict our search to Wuhan or China. We should include the whole world, even the Antarctic and the Arctic. Origin tracing is now an open scientific question, and we can't limit our attention to one particular place," Gao said.</p> 

<p>"It seems that we need to open our minds to think about the origin of the virus. It's possible that even after all this effort, we may not find the source of this virus, but suddenly there will be another coronavirus that is very similar to it. This is a very real possibility."</p> 

<p>Echoing similar views, professor Yang Yungui, the Chinese head of the joint team's molecular tracing group, said, "The joint expert group has reached the consensus that further follow-up studies should be conducted on the analysis of suspected cases of the new coronavirus in patient and environmental samples from around the world reported before the end of January 2020."</p> 

<p>"We recognize that it is necessary to understand the origins of the virus, which is key to better avoiding similar epidemics in the future," Yang added.</p> 

<p>He also mentioned that it's not surprising that the study didn't conclude a clear scientific result as it's a complex and long-term effort that needs to be further explored.</p> 

<p><i>CGTN's Gao Ang contributed to the story.</i></p> 

<h1> China urges U.S. to stop destabilizing HKSAR on the pretext of human rights </h1>
<hr>
<a href=" https://news.cgtn.com/news/2021-03-31/China-urges-U-S-not-to-destabilize-HKSAR-on-pretext-of-human-rights-Z57T3TI6wU/index.html "> https://news.cgtn.com/news/2021-03-31/China-urges-U-S-not-to-destabilize-HKSAR-on-pretext-of-human-rights-Z57T3TI6wU/index.html </a> 


<p>The spokesperson of the Office of the Commissioner of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of China in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) expressed strong disapproval of and firm opposition to a U.S. report, saying the finger-pointing report makes a total mockery of human rights.</p> 

<p>The U.S. Department of State Tuesday issued the "2020 country reports on human rights practices: China."</p> 

<p>The report distorted the truth, demonized the Chinese central government's Hong Kong-related policy measures, including the National Security Law for the HKSAR, vilified the SAR government's law-based governance and the police's law enforcement efforts, and openly endorsed anti-China forces sowing trouble in Hong Kong, the spokesperson stressed in a statement.</p> 

<p>"The report is a gross violation of international law and basic norms governing international relations and an outright interference in Hong Kong affairs, which are China's internal affairs."</p> 

<p>The spokesperson said that since Hong Kong's return, the Central Government has stayed firmly committed to "One Country, Two Systems" under which Hong Kong people administer Hong Kong with a high degree of autonomy, and acted in strict accordance with the Constitution and the Basic Law.</p> 

<p>As a result, Hong Kong people enjoy unprecedented rights and freedoms under the law, the spokesperson said, adding that the National Security Law for the HKSAR has ushered in a historical transition for Hong Kong from chaos to stability and the improvement of the electoral system of the HKSAR has provided institutional guarantees for the enduring success of "One Country, Two Systems", as well as Hong Kong's long-term prosperity and stability by optimizing and developing the democratic system of the HKSAR.</p> 

<p>"Hong Kong today sees no more black violence and 'burn with us' activities. Instead, stability has become the prevailing trend, and the community is united in the efforts to combat COVID-19, rekindle the economy and improve livelihoods. Hong Kong and its people as a whole are sailing towards a better future."</p> 

<p>Noting that the U.S. lags behind Hong Kong in global rankings both for freedoms and the rule of law, the spokesperson pointed out that the United States' own human rights situation is bleak, with recurring racial discrimination and police violence and record-high gun trade and shooting incidents.</p> 

<p>"Nevertheless, the U.S. has turned a blind eye to the problems at home and continued to proclaim itself as a 'champion of human rights.'"</p> 

<p>The spokesperson said the U.S. side accuses the Central Government of China of eroding "One Country, Two Systems" and Hong Kong people's rights and freedoms, smears the SAR government's law-based governance and the police's highly restrained law enforcement actions, and glorifies the violent crimes committed by anti-China troublemakers in the city, only to expose its ulterior motive to wish for more trouble in Hong Kong.</p> 

<p>"It is in line with the historical trend that the central authorities of China set things right in Hong Kong under the Constitution and the Basic Law, and it is the common aspiration of people that they may lead a peaceful and happy life in a prosperous and stable Hong Kong," the spokesperson stressed.</p> 

<p>"Any raucous interference by the U.S. or other external forces is meaningless and miscalculated and will only be hit back by the Chinese people, including our Hong Kong compatriots," the spokesperson added.</p> 

<p>The spokesperson reiterated that Hong Kong is part of China and that its affairs are China's internal affairs.</p> 

<p>"We urge the U.S. to face the facts and grasp the historical trend, manage its own house well, earnestly abide by international law and basic norms governing international relations, and stop meddling with Hong Kong affairs and China's internal affairs at large in whatever form."</p> 

